let's go back to president macon's visit
to Israel because we're now joined by
hono jiar uh hono you're joining us from
West Jerusalem you are chief foreign
correspondent at lefigaro newspaper and
you are following the president's visit
today we thank you for making time
because I know these visits are usually
Whirlwind tours it's really hard to find
even 10 minutes in the day so thanks for
for finding that time look the French
President wanted to bring something
different to the to the table today in
terms of diplomacy what's his big
idea I mean the big idea um um of
President Mar coming to the region
actually he his trip is based on three
ideas idea number one show
solidarity um with um Israel which has
been attacked by U huge um pogam
terrorist attack were like you know more
than 1,000 women children babies were
killed um and this terrorist action of
Hamas
reminded the French President of uh the
terrorist attacks um LED on the French
territory several years ago so
solidarity and with Israel and um uh
help of France to Israel to uh get get
to be sure that Israel stays safe um
since the independence of Israel France
has always guaranteed the security of
the Jewish state number two uh avoid
that this Israel palestin conflict
spreads to the whole Middle East and
third idea of M coming here it's why he
will go in within 20 minutes to hamala
is
um the need of a Palestinian State
living in peace beside Israel this has
been always the French position uh it
has been forgotten in the last 20 years
the need for Palestinian state but uh
France sticks to it um and of course um
U France can only negotiate with um
organizations Palestinian organizations
that would
recognize the right of Israel to live
like PLO did at the end of the 80s in
ales PLO of yes
arat but um France thinks that it's high
time that um a state is given to the
Palestinians because uh if it is not
done will have more and more and more
violence in the Middle East did he make
did he have any demands did he make any
demands on the uh Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu because he's going to
speak to the Palestinian president he's
backing as you say a two-state solution
which France has done for for many years
but I mean how does he move the needle
forward in terms of getting to his
two-state solution that seems to be
going nowhere right
now I think that President mark
understands why Israel need to dismantle
the amas military Wing but uh he does
not believe in Collective punishment and
he thinks that humanitarian Aid should
be allowed to um
to gaza's strip uh even maybe uh a truce
you know in order to uh release all the
hostages um the um
um president mcon um
believes that um Israel has the right to
defend itself and the right to dismantle
Hamas because it was attacked but should
not um uh
transform um Gaza
um ruin area or expel Palestinians from
uh from the Gaza Strip this uh would not
be emitted by by France so in in in a
way if you like at the same time he
brings support all right to president
Natan but at the same time he pleads for
moderation uh in the military re
thank you very much for joining us on
the program
today